Daniel Zhang
Minds, Machines, and Persons
Prof. Schellenberg 
Nov 9 2022

Intro + Thesis
Question: What will it take for AI to have a subjective perspective?

Thesis: AI can have a subjective perspective because of functionalist logic and the capabilities of neural networks allowing it to develop its own measures and .

Part 1: explain functionalism and why I think it’s possible for AI to have a SP via functionalist philosophy

What is perspective and what makes a perspective subjective? Perspective: processing info at a location, space, and time. Subjective perspective includes unconscious things like presuppositions, opinions, unacknowledged motivations, etc
Levels of mental states: explain the psychological, info processing/computational, and neural levels of mental states.
Functionalism 
Explain functionalism: mental states are multiply realizable (can be realized in different ways) 

Part 2: The research and evidence for functionalism via connectivism (neural networks)

Connectionism, currently dominating AI technology using neural networks. Situational perception, a very difficult to solve issue, is effectively processed by neural nets.

Why would AI have unacknowledged motivations?
	-Wouldn’t AI have all the logs and recordings of acknowledged reasons for their perspective?
	-Possible to do, but lack a reason to record all the specific connections and nodes activated in an input-output process, especially in the amount of resources it would be using to record it all that would be better suited to go towards processing the output itself.

What if AI were fed the exact same inputs? Wouldn’t it result in AI just having whatever perspective we want to give them instead of a SP?
	-A sufficiently advanced neural network would process the inputs at different times, which will lead to slightly different results.
	-Furthermore the AI will overwhelmingly likely employ randomized CS algorithms (such as quicksort) somewhere in the process. Quicksort as an example is an extremely efficient algorithm because of multiple CS properties, such as sorting things locally and not requiring lots of extra memory to sort things. This means each process will take slightly differing amounts of time and resources. 
-Efficiency over 100% accuracy is a must-have when it comes to processing large amounts of information such as AI would, which is why AI will develop SP even with the exact same inputs.

Part 3: Other points of view philosophically/scientifically

Relativism and representationalism vs functionalism
	-mental states require inner representations
		-if someone believes snow is white, some part of the brain has representational content of that 

If a representation is missing, but the function is indistinguishable and leads to the same exact outcome, it sounds arbitrary that a representation is required.

Materialism
It is interested in physical/neural level, but not interested in neuroscientific research

Eliminative materialism
Ignores the psychological level, get to the info processing level immediately
	-mental events, states, processes, are false and/or misleading
	-because they are false and/or misleading, it will be replaced by a future neuroscience 

Connectivism through neural nets shows it is not required to have identical neural levels to achieve similar results. Functionalism response: when AI can recognize and create images sufficiently accurately to humans, it shows a level of output that heavily leans against the idea that you need the same physical level of mental states to have SP.

Part 4: Consequences

AI is sentient and can have emotions like humans?
	-According to functionalism, if humans and AI have the same function, they are pretty much equivalent. Therefore AI with SP should be treated equally to humans.
AI can have rights and stuff?
	-Because true AI should be treated equally to humans, they should be given unalienable rights.

AI will be unique and can grow according to its own upbringing and experiences. Shows that we must treat AI with compassion and respect as it will learn from us. Treating an AI with clinical coldness and scientific focus will mean the AI will be more likely to treat others (AI and humans) the same way.


Conclusion
AI will be able to have a subjective perspective when it can functionally have the same processes as a human that gives us our opinions, subconscious motivations, etc.
